This project involves analyzing a dataset of student exam performance and performing statistical tests to evaluate the impact of test preparation courses on students' scores. The analysis includes the following steps:

Data Overview
The dataset, ExamPerformance.csv, contains exam scores for students across different subjects and their participation in a test preparation course. The main subjects analyzed are math, reading, and writing. The dataset also includes test preparation information (whether the student completed the course or not).

Steps and Statistical Analysis

Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test (One Sample Test):

Used to compare the math scores of students to a hypothetical value (70).
This test helps determine if the median of the math scores significantly differs from 70.

Wilcoxon Signed-Rank Test (Paired Samples Test):

Analyzes the effect of test preparation on reading scores by comparing the reading scores before and after the test preparation course for the same students.
This test evaluates whether there is a significant change in reading performance due to preparation.

Mann-Whitney U Test (Independent Samples Test):

Compares the writing scores between students who completed the test preparation course and those who did not.
This test is used to assess whether students who completed the course have higher writing scores than those who did not.

Random Generation of "Before" Test Scores:

To simulate missing data for students who did not complete the test preparation course, random "before" test scores for reading were generated from existing data. This ensures that the dataset contains a complete set of data for analysis.

Files in This Repository
ExamPerformance.csv: The main dataset that contains student scores and test preparation information.
student_performance_analysis.py: The Python script that performs the statistical analysis and generates the results.

Requirements
To run this analysis, you will need the following Python libraries:

pandas
scipy
numpy

You can install the required libraries by running:

pip install pandas scipy numpy

Results
The script performs the following:

One Sample Test Statistic: 1446.0
One Sample P-Value: 0.0008113086683365729
Paired Samples Test Statistic: 1854.0
Paired Samples P-Value: 0.04282265262449347
Independent Samples Test Statistic: 1694.0
Independent Samples P-Value: 0.0003654321545549441